>> Steve Kinney: Hello,
we're gonna talk about web performance.
[COUGH] First thing's first.
My name is Steve, and I am a principal
frontend engineer at SendGrid.
We do a bunch of things at SendGrid,
the main business is sending
out a billion emails a day.
So if you've ever taken an Uber and gotten
an email receipt, we sent that to you.
Or lost a bid on eBay,
we informed you of that unfortunate loss.
Spotify, Pandora,
all of those kind of emails basically go
through SendGrid to get to your inboxes.
Easy way to think about it is
something like Twillio but for email.
I don't work on that part,
I work on a rich client side
application for building emails.
Which is really great, you get all the
advantages of getting to work in React in
the modern web and then build emails
that should render in ala 2007.
Which is a lot of fun, just a fun trivia
fact is that Outlook, you're like,
yeah that probably uses
Internet Explorer's rendering engine.
No no, it uses Microsoft Word.
So that's something we can talk
about later if you're interested.
But yeah, and
the thing about a large client set up,
cuz this is effectively a desktop app
that we're building the browser, right.
And you come across some
interesting problems.
I did a workshop a few months
ago on managing state,
how do you manage all the things that
are happening in this application?
The other question, and
kind of the theme of today,
is how do you do it in a way that
actually stays performant for
users both on a $3,000 MacBook
as well as an older PC?
How do you have it working for people who
are a stone's throw from the data center
that it's hosted from in Chicago as
well as across the world, right?
And also how does the application
stay performant as it's alive for
a long period of time?
So we're gonna look at performance and
figure out how
do we think about performance and what are
the trade offs that we are going to make?
There are some totally do this thing and
performance is gonna be great, right.
But a lot of times you have
to make a trade off or
you have to give up
something to get something.
And depending on the kind of
application that you're building,
the answer to those
trade offs is different.
So we'll kind of talk a little bit
about the theory, the trade offs,
how stuff works under the hood.
Because a lot of the performance advise
that you'll just read on the Internet
could very well be outdated.
And if you just kinda follow all those
things, just mandates that you have to do
in your application, it's likely
that they're either not helping, or
worse, hurting the performance
of your application.